---
permalink: /interests/
title: Career Interests
---

Expertise: Bayesian Methods, Survey Data, Spatial Statistics

From a young age I have loved analyzing data (as evidenced by photos of me
organizing my trick-or-treating spoils into candy bar graphs). Both the
collection and subsequent analysis of data are powerful tools that historically
have driven scientific inquiry and increasingly drive decision making in the
private sector and public policy. I am passionate about continuing to narrowing
the gap between the decision making process and well suited data/analysis for
the question at hand. 

Bayesian statistics are a natural and intuitive way to quantify uncertainty and
risk in the face of decisions.  As a Bayesian data scientist, I believe the
Bayesian workflow (i.e. eliciting priors from subject matter experts, model
specification, prior simulation, model fitting, posterior predictive checks,
see [Gelman et al
2020](http://www.stat.columbia.edu/~gelman/research/unpublished/Bayesian_Workflow_article.pdf))
is particularly well suited for understanding how current beliefs of stake
holders affect down stream analyses/decisions. Often these decisions involve
high-dimensional, multivariate outcomes which require increasingly complex
statistical/machine learning models. 

In my research I have been drawn to Statistical inference problems, where the
primary goal is to draw conclusions or make judgements about a
question/population of interest, especially in the social sciences. I am
particularly interested in latent variable modeling, that is unobserved
variables (i.e. individual preferences) that can be inferred from complex high
dimensional data (i.e. shopping cart data, voting history, surveys).

There has been increased interest in explainable AI. In my opinion, when
inference is the goal, the gold standard for interpretable models are
identifiable models -- models where unique sets of parameters lead to distinct
probability models. Creating identifiable models which better represent the
characteristics of the unobserved variables reduces uncertainty and improves
confidence in the decision making process.  (e.g. voting behavior of members of
congress are explained better when political preferences are represented by a
circle rather than a straight line ([Yu and Rodriguez
2021](https://projecteuclid.org/journals/annals-of-applied-statistics/volume-15/issue-4/Spatial-voting-models-in-circular-spaces--A-case-study/10.1214/21-AOAS1454.full))).

I am passionate about effective communication of research and statistical
concepts to a larger community. The most interesting questions are always at
the intersection of many domains of knowledge, and thus inherently require
effective colloboration and communication.  Scientific research and data
science are useless unless the data-informed decisions can be clearly
communicated to both broad and targeted audiences. 

